 Yemen government forces widen attacks against Houthis: What we know | Conflict News | Al Jazeera 
Skip links Skip to Content play Live Sign up Show navigation menu Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Originals Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content play Live Click here to search search Sign up News | Conflict Yemen government forces widen attacks against Houthis: What we know Yemeni government forces claim to have carried out multiple air and ground operations across the southwestern governorate of Taiz in 24 hours. Listen Listen (8 mins) Save Share Yemen government forces widen attacks against Houthis: What we know on social media share-nodes Share facebook x whatsapp-stroke copylink google Add Al Jazeera on Google info Yemeni government forces after announcing they regained control of a strategic point from the Houthis in ash-Shamaytayn district of Taiz province on September 23, 2026 [Marwan Abdullah Yahya Saeed al-Shabi/Anadolu] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 27 Sep 2026 27 Sep 2026 Yemen’s government forces have conducted multiple air and ground operations in the southwestern governorate of Taiz in 24 hours as they intensify attacks against the Iran-backed Houthi group. The government’s military media centre on Sunday claimed several operations against the rebels, including air raids on Houthi positions in five locations across the governorate. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Yemeni leader urges public to enlist, offers amnesty to Houthi defectors list 2 of 4 Yemen’s government offers amnesty to Houthi defectors list 3 of 4 The intelligence war is turning against the Houthis list 4 of 4 Why has the Yemen government called for a general mobilisation? end of list More than 146,000 people have been displaced since the fighting erupted in July, following a period of relative calm after a United Nations-brokered ceasefire in 2022. In recent weeks, the Houthis have made dramatic territorial gains against the government forces, seizing the strategic Red Sea coastal city of Mocha and expanding their control over the Bab al-Mandeb strait, a global maritime chokepoint connecting Europe to Asia. ⁠Rashad ⁠al-Alimi, the head of the Presidential Leadership Council, has called on citizens to mobilise and join the fight against the Houthis as the government has stepped up its attacks against the Iran-backed group in an effort to stop their advance and regain lost territory. Ibrahim al-Huri, from the University of Saba in Marib governorate, said the Yemeni government’s call for a general “mobilisation” of the population will likely receive more support in the government-controlled areas, especially in Taiz and Marib, where people have been suffering more. “Even in the Houthi-controlled areas, there would be many people who would like to answer the call for mobilisation, but there will be some obstacles and challenges like the fear of retaliation and facing the brutality [of the militia].” Advertisement Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia, which has faced Houthi attacks on its soil since fighting escalated this month, has been turning to its allies, including Pakistan and Turkiye, for support. Saudi Arabia backs Yemen’s internationally recognised government. Here’s what we know about the latest fighting and the humanitarian conditions the impoverished country faces: 
What to know about the latest fighting The military media centre said on Sunday dozens of Houthi fighters, including field commanders, were killed or wounded in the last 24 hours of fighting near Taiz’s capital, which is also named Taiz. Government forces have carried out operations in several areas of the governorate, including the al-Waziiya district in the west, weapons sites and ammunition depots at Mafraq Mawiya and al-Dhukrah in the east, a Houthi gathering in the Hayfan district in the south and against military vehicles in the Gurab area in the northwest. Government forces also thwarted infiltration attempts on the al-Ahtoub front and in Hadran as they carried out shelling of Houthi gatherings on the al-Kadha and al-Aqroud fronts, the media centre said. It added that several Houthi military vehicles were damaged in the attacks. Al Jazeera could not verify the battlefield claims. “Government forces say they have made advances in the southern Taiz governorate, taking control of several areas and higher ground. Among them is Jabal Bazel, a mountaintop that places Houthi supply lines within target range,” Al Jazeera’s Maha Ali said on Saturday, reporting from Taiz. “These developments point to significant and potentially decisive ground operations in recent hours.” Ali said al-Alimi expressed confidence that government forces were capable of restoring control over the whole country. Houthis currently control vast swaths of northern and western Yemen while the government controls the south and east. Since the current fighting erupted, the Houthis have accused the Saudis of carrying out attacks in Yemen and promised to prevent Saudi tankers from passing through Bab al-Mandeb, which Riyadh has been using as an alternative shipping route to the Strait of Hormuz amid the US-Israel war on Iran. Tehran has effectively closed the Strait of Hormuz since the United States and Israel began the war in February. Before the conflict, a fifth of the world’s oil supplies had passed through Hormuz. Government forces, meanwhile, accused the Houthis of using Iranian air defence weapons and said they pose a danger to aircraft. Advertisement “These Houthi weapons pose a serious threat to international flight paths over the Red Sea and operate using a heat-tracking system,” Brigadier-General Majed al-Nazili, the Yemeni government forces’ spokesperson, said on social media. “The weapons employed are capable of attacking military or civilian targets without the ability to distinguish between them, thereby endangering the safety of civil aviation and the lives of passengers.” Early on Saturday, a Saudi-led coalition in Yemen said its air defence systems intercepted two ballistic missiles and two drones launched by the Houthis towards Riyadh and Khamis Mushait in Saudi Arabia. 
What has been the regional response to the conflict? On Saturday, Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud addressed the UN General Assembly (UNGA) and called on the international community to condemn Houthi actions against the kingdom and in Yemen. At the same forum, Yemeni Vice President Abdullah Abdulkader al-Alimi-Bawzer warned that the Houthis were using shipping security “as a tool for blackmail”. “It is taking hostage the entire global economy,” he said. The secretary-general of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), Jassim Mohammed al-Budaiwi, on Saturday strongly condemned the recent Houthi attacks against Saudi Arabia. “This dangerous escalation constitutes a flagrant violation of the Kingdom’s sovereignty and poses a direct threat to the security and safety of civilians and the stability of the region,” al-Budaiwi said in a statement. Iran has denied it has any role in the Yemen conflict. President Masoud Pezeshkian told Al Jazeera that the actions of the Houthis were not connected to Iran and that it stands in solidarity with “everyone subjected to injustice”. He urged the Houthis and Saudi Arabia to resolve their differences through dialogue, saying “a brother should not fight his brother” and offered Iran’s help in ending the dispute. “We will not be warmongers,” he said. On Friday, Iran delivered a ceasefire offer, which US President Donald Trump has rejected. It included Yemen and Lebanon. Tehran offered to open the Strait of Hormuz if the US fulfils its conditions, which include the lifting of Washington’s naval blockade on Iranian ports, a sanctions waiver and the release of Iran’s frozen assets. Could Saudi allies join the conflict? Saudi Arabia’s allies have rallied behind it amid intense fighting between Yemeni government forces and the Houthis. Saudi Defence Minister Khalid bin Salman Al Saud said on Saturday joint efforts with Pakistan would continue to confront attacks against the kingdom in accordance with the Mecca Joint Defence Agreement signed last month. He held talks with Pakistani army chief Field Marshal Asim Munir on Thursday. A day earlier, the military chiefs of Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Turkiye jointly reviewed Houthi threats at a meeting in Riyadh. Multiple Saudi cities, including Riyadh, have been hit by drones and missiles attributed to the Houthis. Meanwhile, France confirmed on Friday that it was sending troops to guard the major oil terminal at Yanbu, a Saudi port city on the Red Sea, but added that it was not joining the conflict. Yanbu has major oil storage and refining facilities and is connected by the East-West Pipeline, which can carry up to seven million barrels a day. The pipeline was damaged in a drone attack carried out by a group based in Iraq. Advertisement The US has so far not pledged military involvement, but the Saudi foreign minister said the kingdom was “continuing to work with our partners in the US”. On September 14, the commander of the US military’s Central Command, Brad Cooper, met the de facto Saudi ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, in Jeddah in the wake of the Houthis’ seizure of Mocha. 
What’s the state of humanitarian conditions? At least 146,000 people have been displaced in the Arab region’s most impoverished country over the past three weeks, most of whom were uprooted from or within Taiz governorate, according to Yemen’s UNICEF country representative, Akhil Iyer. More than 3,000 people fled across the Red Sea to Djibouti over several days earlier this month, Djibouti state media have reported, with the UN warning that the number could rise . The number of casualties is still not confirmed as the rival sides have made conflicting claims. As per media reports, the death toll runs into the hundreds. UNICEF has verified that at least 15 children have been killed and 14 injured in the conflict since early September, while three have been reported missing. According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, more than 22 million people in Yemen require humanitarian assistance and protection services; 18.3 million people face acute food shortages; and 2.2 million children under five are acutely malnourished. Al-Huri, from the University of Saba, said millions of Yemenis have been suffering from war and “it’s high time for it to come to an end”. “According to reports by UN organisations, more than five million Yemenis have left their homes for different places across Yemen, and those people are eager to return home. Their families want to live safely and with dignity,” he told Al Jazeera. aj-logo aj-logo aj-logo Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: facebook twitter youtube instagram-colored-outline rss bluesky tiktok-colored-outline © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network 
