 
Trump rejects Iran’s seven-day peace deal to reopen strait of Hormuz | Middle East and north Africa | The Guardian 
Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in 
Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu 
News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries 
Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters 
Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports 
Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage 
Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today&#x27;s paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World US politics UK Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries People walk past a billboard about the strait of Hormuz in Tehran. Donald Trump has rejected Iran’s offer of a seven-day ceasefire. Photograph: Majid Asgaripour/Reuters View image in fullscreen People walk past a billboard about the strait of Hormuz in Tehran. Donald Trump has rejected Iran’s offer of a seven-day ceasefire. Photograph: Majid Asgaripour/Reuters Middle East and north Africa Trump rejects Iran’s seven-day peace deal to reopen strait of Hormuz US president is said to expect renewed strikes after the midterms Donna Ferguson and agencies Sun 27 Sep 2026 07.34 BST First published on Sat 26 Sep 2026 10.31 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Donald Trump has said he has rejected an Iranian proposal to reopen the strait of Hormuz within a week and resume nuclear talks in return for the lifting of the US naval blockade of Iranian ports. “They made a proposal but I reject it,” the US president told reporters at the White House. The president was earlier said to be privately sceptical Iran would meet his demands to dismantle its nuclear programme, according to unnamed US officials cited by the Wall Street Journal. Trump has told aides he expects to resume bombing Iran after the November midterms in the US, the newspaper reported. Trump faces tough choices as Iran dangles deal to reopen Hormuz before US midterms Read more Meanwhile, on Friday evening, he published a post on his Truth Social platform with a graphic showing a map with the strait of Hormuz renamed as the “Trump Strait”. During a three-hour meeting at the UN general assembly in New York earlier this week, Iran had proposed reopening the strait, which would relieve pressure on global energy markets, and restart talks on its nuclear programme within seven days. In return, as well as lifting its naval blockade, Iran wants the US to permit the release of some of Iran’s frozen assets, restore the waiver that lifted sanctions on Iran’s oil exports and observe a “ceasefire on all fronts”. That would involve the US president convincing Israel to end its attacks on Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon, a tall order, and allowing the strait to reopen largely on Iran’s terms, with the new route predominantly going through Iranian waters. Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, on Sunday said “our conditions are clear and any move toward reopening the strait of Hormuz is contingent upon these conditions being fulfilled”. “We will not back down from them,” Araghchi said, state broadcaster IRIB reported. “We have never closed the door to diplomacy or negotiations, but at the same time, we have never backed down from our rights.” Reports of the rejection came as Iranian state media reported on Saturday morning that the Iranian president, Masoud Pezeshkian, was on his way back to Tehran from New York. View image in fullscreen Iran president Masoud Pezeshkian (left) with UN secretary general António Guterres in New York. Photograph: Caitlin Ochs/Reuters After a meeting with UN secretary general, António Guterres, Pezeshkian said: “Iran has not walked away from the negotiating table, but given past experiences, it no longer trusts the United States.” Araghchi said on Sunday that the Iranians “saw the first reaction from the US president, but so far, nothing has been conveyed to us by the mediators”. “We are waiting for the mediators to convey the definitive positions to us, and we will make a decision based on them,” the foreign minister added. Earlier, a US official had ⁠said discussions with Iran through mediators were “positive and constructive” and, on Friday, Araghchi, had detailed the proposal to reporters outside the UN security council. He said the seven-day timeline to open the strait and resume talks could start as soon as the US accepts Iran’s proposal. The initial steps would take about four to five days to complete, the strait would be opened on the sixth day and talks on the nuclear programme would start on the seventh day, he said. This would include a protocol to allow UN nuclear inspectors back in to look at Iran’s damaged sites and the stockpile of highly enriched uranium. The US naval blockade is putting intense pressure on the Iranian economy, while the seven-month-old conflict in the region has disrupted oil flows through one of the world’s most critical shipping lanes and is increasing the cost of living around the globe. Pezeshkian, in an interview with the CBS show Face the Nation, said Tehran was ready for talks on its nuclear programme and other issues, but would not accept “bullying or coercion”. “Iran is not seeking war, but will defend itself against pressure, threats and attacks,” Pezeshkian said, adding that it had already agreed that “we’re not supposed to develop nuclear weapons”. Previous attempts at diplomacy have failed ‌to end the war, which began on 28 February with US and Israeli attacks. Since then the conflict has alternated between pauses and renewed strikes, killing thousands while degrading Iran’s conventional forces and damaging its already ailing economy. View image in fullscreen Donald Trump during his address to the UN general assembly. Photograph: Mike Segar/Reuters Iran and its allies have retaliated by extending the conflict throughout the region. Iran has struck US allies in the Gulf with drones and missiles while its Houthi allies in Yemen have targeted Saudi interests. Iranian-aligned militias in Iraq were blamed for a pipeline attack that temporarily took more Saudi oil off the market. The violence in Yemen has prompted a new humanitarian crisis, the UN children’s agency said on Friday, reporting a rise in acute malnutrition among children. Trump has previously said he was in no rush to reach a deal, even as high oil prices fuel inflation. On the Iranian side, there are questions as to whether the hardliners who dominate the security forces would accept compromises championed by moderates such as Pezeshkian. Diplomatic efforts surrounding the UN general assembly underscored the global stakes in the conflict. 
Marina Dunbar contributed. With Reuters and AP 
Explore more on these topics Middle East and north Africa Iran US-Israel war on Iran Donald Trump US foreign policy Strait of Hormuz news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World US politics UK Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us   Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 
