 
London’s investment bankers and lawyers make more than £1bn in takeover frenzy | Banking | The Guardian 
Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in 
Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu 
News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries 
Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters 
Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports 
Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage 
Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today&#x27;s paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail The value of mergers and acquisitions of UK-listed companies surged to about £100bn in 2026, helping drive multimillion-pound pay packets for bankers, lawyers and accountants working on the deals. Photograph: Mike Kemp/In Pictures/Getty Images View image in fullscreen The value of mergers and acquisitions of UK-listed companies surged to about £100bn in 2026, helping drive multimillion-pound pay packets for bankers, lawyers and accountants working on the deals. Photograph: Mike Kemp/In Pictures/Getty Images Banking London’s investment bankers and lawyers make more than £1bn in takeover frenzy Bumper fees paid in the year’s mergers and acquisitions spark anger over high City pay during cost of living crisis Lauren Almeida Sun 27 Sep 2026 07.00 BST Last modified on Sun 27 Sep 2026 20.19 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google London’s investment bankers and lawyers have made more than £1bn from a frenzy of takeover deals this year, sparking anger over high City pay during the cost of living crisis . The value of mergers and acquisitions of UK stock market listed companies has surged 175% in 2026 to $132.9bn (£100bn), according to the London Stock Exchange , as overseas buyers snap up British companies at record pace. Fees paid to investment bankers, lawyers and accountants working on these deals topped £1.2bn, official filings suggest, helping drive multimillion-pound pay packets. The bumper fees were fuelled by a string of corporate takeovers driven by a flood of private equity cash and acquisitive American buyers targeting undervalued British businesses. The spree of acquisitions of listed companies has led to concerns over the future of the London stock market . The takeover frenzy has fed advisory business at the biggest banks and law firms in the City. Bankers at JP Morgan have been the busiest, advising on more takeovers involving UK companies than any other bank this year – a total of 14 deals worth a combined $89.4bn (£67.6bn), according to the LSE. The leading law firm was Slaughter and May, it found. UK bankers have also benefited from soaring bonuses, after the government scrapped a rule capping bonuses at two-times annual salaries in late 2023. Each bank now sets its own upward limit. Big investment banks such as Goldman Sachs now allow performers to be paid up to 25 times their annual salary . The surge in business comes while the banking sector lobbies against paying higher taxes in the UK . Jamie Dimon, the billionaire boss of JP Morgan, has issued several warnings to Andy Burnham and his chancellor, John Healey, against raising taxes on banks in his inaugural budget on 28 October. The industry body UK Finance echoed the view this week. Lenders in the UK currently pay a 28% corporation tax rate, higher than the standard 25%, as well as a separate surcharge on their UK balance sheets. The most lucrative deal in the City this year was the £10.6bn takeover of the lab testing group Intertek by the private equity firm EQT, which is expected to generate more than £370m in fees. Morgan Stanley, Barclays and Deutsche Bank are working on the deal for EQT, while Intertek paid Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan Cazenove and PJT Partners. Lawyers at top City firms have started to out-earn some bankers. Partners at the “magic circle” firms Linklaters and Clifford Chance were paid an average of £2.5m and £2.3m respectively in the year to April, their highest ever. A&O Shearman partners were paid £2.2m. View image in fullscreen The Clifford Chance building at Canary Wharf, London. Partners at the firm were paid an average of £2.3m in the year to April. Photograph: Robert Evans/Alamy At the boutique bank Evercore, which the LSE said had advised on five deals in the UK stock market this year, the firm’s “members” – senior managing directors who are dealmakers – were paid an average of about £2m. Its best-paid member collected £16.2m this year. Overall, dealmaker fees are likely to be even higher this year as the figures do not include deals which did not complete, were rejected or for which documents have not been published – including the £5.7bn takeover of the FTSE 100 airline easyJet by the private equity firm Apollo Global Management, agreed last month . While pay continues to climb in the City, millions of UK households are struggling with the cost of living. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we&#x27;ll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Charlotte Brumpton-Childs, the national secretary at the GMB union, said financial brokers were paid huge sums “while the people who keep this country moving struggle to make ends meet”. “The UK needs to seriously re-examine what we value and hold dear – is it the people who build, who create, who look after us and our loved ones in their hour of need? Or is it a bloated financial sector?” she asked. Paul Nowak, the general secretary of the Trades Union Congress, repeated his call for a windfall tax on lenders’ profits as interest rates have risen , saying that “if banks can afford bonanza payouts for their top brass, they can clearly afford to pay more tax”. “People up and down the country are struggling, and things could get a lot worse with energy prices set to shoot up,” he said. Earlier this month figures from the Office for National Statistics showed that average growth in total earnings, including bonuses, slowed to 3.9% in the three months ended in July, down from 4.1% in the three months ended in June. There are fears that, while dealmakers’ pay is rising on the takeover boom, investment banks could lose out on revenue from their sell-side research and work on flotations as more companies leave London’s stock market and fewer line up to join. Despite hopes that 2026 could spark a revival on the UK stock market, there were just seven listings in the first half of the year, raising £577m in total, according to data from the professional services company EY. However, this week, Airtel Money, the mobile money arm of Airtel Africa, said it was planning one of the biggest UK listings in years. Get in touch Contact the Guardian Business team The best public interest journalism relies on first-hand accounts from people in the know. If you have something to share on this subject you can contact the Business team confidentially using the following methods: Secure Messaging in the Guardian app The Guardian app has a tool to send tips about stories. Messages are end to end encrypted and concealed within the routine activity that every Guardian mobile app performs. This prevents an observer from knowing that you are communicating with us at all, let alone what is being said. If you don't already have the Guardian app, download it ( iOS / Android ) and go to the menu. Scroll down and click on Secure Messaging . When asked who you wish to contact please select the ‘Business (UK & Global)’ team. SecureDrop If you can safely use the tor network without being observed or monitored you can send messages and documents to the Guardian via our SecureDrop platform. Our guide at theguardian.com/tips lists several ways to contact us securely, and discusses the pros and cons of each. Show more Explore more on these topics Banking Executive pay and bonuses Mergers and acquisitions London Stock Exchange Private equity JP Morgan Financial sector news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us   Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 
