 
Ukraine war briefing: Russian attacks force closure of Ukraine’s largest steelmaker | Russia | The Guardian 
Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in 
Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu 
News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries 
Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters 
Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports 
Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage 
Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today&#x27;s paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Ukraine’s biggest steel plant, ArcelorMittal Kryvyi Rih, seen here, has been closed because of the damage from deadly Russian strikes. Photograph: Roman Pilipey/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Ukraine’s biggest steel plant, ArcelorMittal Kryvyi Rih, seen here, has been closed because of the damage from deadly Russian strikes. Photograph: Roman Pilipey/AFP/Getty Images Russia-Ukraine war at a glance Russia Explainer Ukraine war briefing: Russian attacks force closure of Ukraine’s largest steelmaker Closure another blow to Ukraine’s steel sector, as Zelenskyy warns Moscow is expanding its targets to include ‘daily life’. What we know on day 1,676 Guardian staff and agencies Sat 26 Sep 2026 02.00 BST Last modified on Sat 26 Sep 2026 02.03 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google 
The world’s second biggest steelmaker, ArcelorMittal, has closed Ukraine’s largest steel plant , highlighting the growing economic toll from Russian airstrikes. The multinational ⁠said on Friday it had told ​the Ukrainian government that “safe and sustainable” operations were not possible after four strikes in five weeks caused extensive damage and killed five workers at the plant in Kryvyi Rih in central Ukraine. The decision is another blow to Ukraine’s steel sector, which used to account for 15% of the country’s exports ⁠but has come under pressure from Russian attacks and restrictions from the EU. Russia has increased airstrikes on Ukraine in recent months using ballistic missiles and jet-powered drones that have hit businesses, logistics networks, Black Sea port facilities and civilian infrastructure. 
The ArcelorMittal closure comes as the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said ⁠on Friday that Russia was constantly expanding its attacks on infrastructure Ukrainians relied on for daily life , such as datacentres and warehouses. “There were also drone strikes today on a warehouse used by McDonald’s. An attack drone – against ordinary food products … American and other businesses, datacentres, internet providers – for Russia, ordinary life in and of itself is simply a target,” Zelenskyy said on X. “All of this undermines people’s ability to stay connected, study, and work.” 
The Ukrainian president said the European Union and the International Monetary Fund understood the importance of helping Kyiv finance its budget deficit and ⁠defence spending. Ukraine is seeking ⁠an additional $27bn from partners this year for defence, saying the cost of the war has risen. Kyiv has asked to ⁠bring forward part of a loan from the EU. Zelenskyy said Ukraine needed to order ​drones in October and November or ‌it would face challenges ‌at the start of next year. “Everyone understands that Ukraine cannot be alone, and that more ‌investment is needed in Ukrainian-made drones and missiles,” he told reporters in a WhatsApp briefing. 
Zelenskyy has asked Donald Trump to press China’s leader to use Beijing’s influence over Moscow to get Russia to end the war. On Friday, Zelenskyy told reporters he had not yet heard from the White House about Trump’s talks with Chinese president Xi Jinping but expected to learn the outcome soon. Zelenskyy was in the US this week on a trip coinciding with the UN general assembly. He met Trump on Tuesday. Nato countries have called China a “decisive enabler” of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invasion. 
Meanwhile, Putin has claimed Russia is not preparing for “any kind” of conflict with Europe. Putin made his comments after warnings from some European Nato members of potential Russian attacks on the alliance’s territory, including Denmark’s defence intelligence service, which this week warned of a “low but growing risk” that Russia could launch long-range strikes on Nato infrastructure supporting Ukraine. Putin said Russia had “no real motive” to escalate tensions and criticised European countries that have suggested otherwise. “I want to emphasise once again: we are not preparing for any kind of hostilities with Europe,” he said. 
Senior European officials have sought to play down fears that ⁠potential election victories by Ukraine-sceptic parties in France and Germany could undermine support for Kyiv. Speaking to Reuters on the sidelines of the UN general assembly, officials acknowledged risks posed by shifting electoral tides but said support ⁠for Kyiv would endure. Lithuanian Foreign Minister Kestutis Budrys acknowledged elections were one of the factors shaping calculations about future support but said backing for Ukraine would endure even if some countries became less committed: “If someone additionally will fall from those ⁠strong supporters of Ukraine, others will stand because this is in our interest.” Estonian Foreign Minister Margus Tsahkna said concerns about elections should not distract Europe from Ukraine’s immediate needs. “The main thing is not only about elections, it’s about Ukraine,” he said. 
A bipartisan group of 14 senators is urging Trump to rescind the invitation to Russian President Vladimir Putin to attend the G20 summit to be held in Florida in December. “President Putin bears sole responsibility for launching Russia’s full-scale war of aggression against Ukraine. Allowing him to participate in a G20 Summit in the United States raises serious concerns about legitimising and normalising a government that continues to attack Ukrainian civilian targets every day,” the senators wrote in a letter. Among those who signed the letter are Jeanne Shaheen, Mitch McConnell, Roger Wicker, and Chris Coons. 
Explore more on these topics Russia Russia-Ukraine war at a glance Ukraine Europe Nato Steel industry Arcelor Mittal European Union explainers Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us   Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 
