 
Russia strikes at heart of Ukraine’s digital economy with attacks on ISPs and datacentres | Ukraine | The Guardian 
Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in 
Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu 
News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries 
Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters 
Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports 
Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage 
Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today&#x27;s paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development An office building in Kyiv's Solomianskyi district that housed a datacentre and communications infrastructure after a Russian drone attack on Wednesday. Photograph: Kostiantyn Liberov/Libkos/Getty Images View image in fullscreen An office building in Kyiv's Solomianskyi district that housed a datacentre and communications infrastructure after a Russian drone attack on Wednesday. Photograph: Kostiantyn Liberov/Libkos/Getty Images Ukraine Russia strikes at heart of Ukraine’s digital economy with attacks on ISPs and datacentres As winter approaches, Kyiv fears disruption to vital networks that keep banks, payment systems and public services running 
Ukraine and Russia’s long-range drone war 
Pjotr Sauer in Kyiv Sat 26 Sep 2026 05.00 BST Last modified on Sat 26 Sep 2026 05.02 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Russia has opened a new front in its campaign against Ukraine , hitting several datacentres and internet providers in Kyiv this week in an apparent attempt to weaken the digital backbone of the economy. About 100,000 households in Kyiv and the surrounding region suffered temporary internet outages after strikes on Wednesday and Thursday, according to Ukraine’s digital transformation ministry. On Friday, another drone strike in central Kyiv hit the offices of Datagroup, one of Ukraine’s largest telecommunications companies, killing four people. “Russia has targeted major Ukrainian datacentres, seeking to disrupt the flow of information,” Ukraine’s foreign minister, Andrii Sybiha, wrote on X. On Thursday, Polish authorities reported a Starlink satellite station in central Poland serving Ukraine had been set on fire , in what appeared to be part of a coordinated attack on Ukraine’s internet infrastructure. Local officials described it as an “act of sabotage” linked to Moscow. Russia has previously targeted Ukraine’s datacentres, but attacks on this scale are new. Russia could attack a Nato country within months, Danish intelligence says Read more Keeping the country connected has been a priority for the Ukrainian government throughout the war, with authorities looking for ways to ensure mobile and internet providers have enough backup power to keep operating during prolonged electricity outages. Ukraine’s relatively decentralised internet network also makes it harder for individual strikes to cause widespread or prolonged outages across whole cities or regions. But with winter approaching, officials and industry figures fear repeated Russian attacks could begin to disrupt the networks that keep Ukraine’s banks, payment systems and public services running. “I recommend Kyiv residents gradually prepare for winter … by getting Starlink terminals or other means of maintaining communications,” Serhii Sternenko, a popular blogger and former government adviser, wrote on X. “The goal of the Russians is not only to strike at the capital’s energy infrastructure but also to destroy all datacentres and internet operators,” Sternenko added. The attacks come amid Russia’s intensified strikes on Ukraine’s economy , with missiles and new jet-powered drones used against warehouses, petrol stations, ports and other commercial infrastructure, adding further pressure to an economy already strained by nearly five years of full-scale war. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to This is Europe The most pressing stories and debates for Europeans – from identity to economics to the environment Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen On Friday, Russia struck a warehouse used by the McDonald’s chain. Photograph: Sergiy Chalyi/Reuters Among the targets on Friday was a warehouse used by the McDonald’s fast food restaurant chain outside Kyiv. Heavy industry has also been hit hard, with Russian strikes disrupting industrial facilities and steel production. This month, Ukraine failed to produce a single tonne of steel for the first time in a century, according to a senior industry official. Ukraine is struggling to counter a growing wave of new high-speed Russian jet-powered drones, including the Geran-5, while also running critically low on Patriot missiles needed to defend against Russian ballistic and cruise missile attacks. Speaking to reporters on Friday, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said Donald Trump had approved granting Ukraine licences to produce Patriot air defence missiles, potentially giving Kyiv a path to manufacture the crucial systems domestically, though experts say it could take years to establish production. Trump has previously flip-flopped over whether to allow Ukraine to produce Patriots, with the US also facing pressure on its own stocks because of the war in the Middle East. Explore more on these topics Ukraine Russia Cyberwar ISPs Datacentres Internet Telecoms Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us   Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 
