 
Russia could attack a Nato country within months, Danish intelligence says | Nato | The Guardian 
Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in 
Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu 
News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries 
Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters 
Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports 
Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage 
Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today&#x27;s paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Left to right: Thomas Ahrenkiel, the head of the Danish defence intelligence service; Jeppe Bruus, the defence minister, and Michael Hyldgaard, the chief of defence, at the release of the intelligence report in Copenhagen. Photograph: Ida Marie Odgaard/Reuters View image in fullscreen Left to right: Thomas Ahrenkiel, the head of the Danish defence intelligence service; Jeppe Bruus, the defence minister, and Michael Hyldgaard, the chief of defence, at the release of the intelligence report in Copenhagen. Photograph: Ida Marie Odgaard/Reuters Nato Russia could attack a Nato country within months, Danish intelligence says Warning comes hours after Poland says fire at Starlink satellite station was ‘act of sabotage’ Pjotr Sauer in Kyiv Thu 24 Sep 2026 17.05 BST Last modified on Fri 25 Sep 2026 05.26 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Russia could launch a limited military attack against a Nato country in the coming months, Danish intelligence said, in one of the starkest warnings yet by western security services. In a report published on Thursday, the Danish defence intelligence service warned of a “low but growing risk” that Russia could launch long-range strikes on Nato infrastructure supporting Ukraine , or carry out a limited incursion into a neighbouring country with a small number of troops, potentially operating without insignia. The report came hours after a fire at a Starlink satellite station in central Poland that local authorities described as an “act of sabotage”. Krzysztof Gawkowski, the deputy prime minister of Poland, said the blaze, which broke out overnight in the Masovian voivodeship, had been “deliberately designed to disable the station”, disrupting internet access for a number of institutions, including the Ukrainian military. View image in fullscreen The Starlink station in Wola Krobowska, Poland, April 2026. Photograph: Pleiades Neo © Airbus DS 2026/Reuters Gawkowski said it had not been established who ​was responsible for the fire, but that “many signs suggest this aligns with Russia’s new ‌doctrine ⁠of attack. “While everything is operational today, we must recognise, as prime minister [Donald] Tusk recently noted, that this is an element of hybrid warfare,” he said. Starlink has become a key part of Ukraine’s military communications, and the incident comes amid a spate of suspected Russian sabotage operations across European infrastructure supporting Ukraine. Earlier this month, Germany publicly blamed Russia for an attempted drone attack on Leipzig/Halle airport, while a series of other incidents – including fires at drone factories and sabotage targeting rail infrastructure – have also been investigated for possible links to Moscow. Russia has denied involvement in such attacks. European spy chiefs warn Moscow is planning more decisive action against Nato Read more In recent weeks, several European intelligence chiefs have warned that Russia may be preparing more assertive actions to test Nato countries’ commitment to supporting Ukraine, though officials differ over how imminent such a move may be. Russia is expected to intensify its hybrid attacks against European countries with “greater consequences” for those targeted in the coming months, the Danes warned, including “destructive cyber-attacks that cripple societal functions as well as sabotage attacks that carry a high risk of casualties”. A source familiar with Moscow’s thinking agreed that Russia was likely to step up its hybrid attacks. “Russian military top command is convinced some Nato countries are directly involved in the war against Russia – not just by supplying Ukraine with weapons and intelligence, but by helping to guide missiles and drones,” the source said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “They therefore believe Nato is already waging a hybrid war against Russia, and that Russia has the right to respond in kind,” the source added. “Hybrid attacks” are broad terms generally used to describe non-military tactics aimed at pressuring or destabilising an adversary, including cyber-attacks, sabotage and disinformation. The aim of Russia’s actions would be to divert European resources away from supporting Ukraine, and deepen divisions within Nato if the alliance failed to agree on a collective response, the report added. The service believes it remained “highly unlikely” that Russia would launch an outright invasion of a Nato country, but notably said it “cannot be ruled out”. The Danish services said Russia could seek to test Nato’s article 5, which commits members to collective defence. They warned there was “a risk that Russia assesses that the Nato countries will not respond collectively”, particularly if Moscow believes the US is unable or unwilling to support its European allies in a potential war with Russia. There have been ongoing jitters among Nato members over whether the alliance’s most powerful member, the US, would come to Europe’s defence under Donald Trump in the event of a Russian attack. Questions over unity within Europe are also growing. Last week, Slovakia’s prime minister, Robert Fico, who has maintained close ties with the Kremlin, cast doubt on his country’s commitment to Nato’s collective defence principle, saying he did not want Slovakia drawn into a military conflict “because of some article 5”. Speaking at the UN general assembly on Wednesday, Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that Russia continued to threaten countries beyond Ukraine, including Moldova, Poland and the Baltic states, while showing “no respect” for the sovereignty of countries in the south Caucasus and central Asia. “The more freedom Putin has to act, the more dangerous the world becomes for everyone else,” he said. Explore more on these topics Nato Russia Denmark Poland Ukraine Espionage Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us   Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 
