 "/> <meta property="og:description" content="Global sanctions enforcement intensifies as the US expands its economic pressure campaigns against Cuba, Iran, and Venezuela while the UK and EU strengthen their Russia sanctions frameworks. Meanwhile, China pushes back against US sanctions targeting its companies over alleged Iran ties, and a Dutch chipmaker faces asset freezes amid a complex ownership dispute involving Chinese courts.
 "/> <meta name="twitter:description" content="Global sanctions enforcement intensifies as the US expands its economic pressure campaigns against Cuba, Iran, and Venezuela while the UK and EU strengthen their Russia sanctions frameworks. Meanwhile, China pushes back against US sanctions targeting its companies over alleged Iran ties, and a Dutch chipmaker faces asset freezes amid a complex ownership dispute involving Chinese courts.
 "/> 
 Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP 
 US Developments 
 State Department Sanctions Six Targets in Cuban Financial, Metals and Mining, and Energy Sectors 
 On  September 3 , the State Department designated five entities and one inpidual related to Cuba’s financial services, metals and mining, and energy sectors. These actions were pursuant to  Executive Order (“E.O.”) 14404 , “Imposing Sanctions on Those Responsible for Repression in Cuba and for Threats to United States National Security and Foreign Policy.” 
 The designated entities include Banco Exterior de Cuba, a state-owned financial institution; two subsidiaries of the state-owned petroleum company, Union Cuba Petroleo (“CUPET”); Empresa de Servicios Comandante René Ramos Latour, a state-owned mining support services company; and Empresa Importadora y Abastecedora del Níquel, a state-owned nickel industry support services company. Additionally, the State Department designated Fidel Ernesto Castro Calis, who is the grandson of Raúl Castro. 
 Alongside the sanctions, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) issued Cuba  General License (“GL”) 4A  under E.O. 14404. GL 4A authorizes transactions that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the official activities of third-country diplomatic and consular missions in Cuba. GL 4A broadens the authorization previously granted by GL 4 by removing a prior restriction on certain financial transfers to blocked persons. 
 OFAC Sanctions Turkish Bank as Part of Operation Economic Outcast 
 On  September 4 , OFAC announced sanctions against Türkiye-based financial institution Golden Global Yatirim Bankasi Anonim Sirketi (“Golden Global Bank”) and its subsidiaries for allegedly facilitating tens of millions of dollars’ worth of transactions for Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Qods Force (“IRGC-QF”). According to OFAC, Golden Global Bank was established for the purpose of providing correspondent banking services to Iranian financial institutions in order to enable China’s purchases of Iranian oil. 
 These sanctions are part of the Trump Administration’s new “Operation Economic Outcast,” which is a broad economic pressure campaign targeted at Iran. We covered the initiative and its implications in a recent  blog post . 
 OFAC Generally Authorizes Venezuelan Coal Activities 
 On  September 2 , OFAC expanded the scope of three Venezuelan GLs to include authorizations for transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to certain activities relating to Venezuelan-origin coal, including those involving the Venezuelan state-owned coal company Carbones del Zulia (“Carbozulia”). The prior versions of these GLs only authorized activities related to Venezuelan-origin minerals. In particular, OFAC issued the following amended GLs: 
 GL  51D , which authorizes transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the exportation, reexportation, sale, resale, supply, storage, purchase, delivery, or transportation of Venezuelan-origin coal or minerals; 
 GL  54C , which authorizes transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the provision from the United States or by a U.S. person of goods, technology, software, or services for the exploration, development, mining, extraction, processing, refining, or production of coal or minerals in Venezuela; and 
 GL  55A , which authorizes transactions that are related to the negotiation of and entry into contingent contracts for new investment in the coal or minerals sectors of Venezuela. 
 OFAC Issues Reminder to File the 2026 Annual Report of Blocked Property 
 On  September 2 , OFAC issued a reminder that U.S. persons holding blocked property as of June 30, 2026, must submit an Annual Report of Blocked Property (“ARBP”) by September 30, 2026. Failure to file a complete report by the deadline may constitute a violation of OFAC’s Reporting, Procedures, and Penalties Regulations and could result in an enforcement referral. Persons filing the 2026 ARBP must use spreadsheet form  TD-F 90-22.50  and submit the completed form through the  OFAC Reporting System  (“ORS”), which OFAC adopted as its primary reporting mechanism two years ago. First-time users of ORS will need to contact OFAC to request registration instructions. For additional information, please review  OFAC’s Guidance on Filing the 2026 Annual Report of Blocked Property . 
 UK Developments 
 UK Issues Movement Direction to Russian Cargo Vessel SINEGORSK 
 The UK Government has  published  details of the use of its transport sanctions powers against the Russian-flagged, registered and operated cargo vessel, SINEGORSK. According to the UK Government notice, on January 27, 2026, the vessel informed HM Coastguard that it intended to anchor in sheltered UK waters to repair a small hull defect during adverse weather. After SINEGORSK anchored at Blue Bay Anchorage within UK waters, the Centre for Transport Sanctions investigated and determined that the vessel fell within the scope of the Russia (Sanctions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 because it was Russian-flagged and registered and operated by a Russian-incorporated company. 
 On January 28, 2026, the Secretary of State for Transport exercised the discretionary power under regulation 57C of the Russia Regulations to issue a movement direction, which was served by HM Coastguard. SINEGORSK complied with the direction, leaving UK internal waters and subsequently the UK’s territorial sea. The action illustrates the practical application of the UK’s shipping sanctions, which are intended to restrict Russia’s ability to use its maritime sector to support or finance the war in Ukraine and include powers to deny in-scope vessels access to UK ports and issue movement and detention directions. 
 OTSI Publishes First Annual Review Covering 2025–26 
 The Office of Trade Sanctions Implementation (OTSI) has  published  its 2025–26 Annual Review, alongside an accompanying  blog  reflecting on its first full year of activity across compliance, licensing and enforcement (the “ Review ”). According to the Review, OTSI received 178 reports or referrals of potential trade sanctions breaches, with 111 (62%) originating from sectors subject to mandatory reporting obligations and 23 referrals from other UK government departments. OTSI closed 104 enforcement cases, including 41 where no breach was identified and 40 that were referred to HMRC, including for potential criminal enforcement or because the conduct predated OTSI’s enforcement powers. Around 6% of cases opened were initiated proactively, with OTSI indicating that it intends to significantly increase proactive and intelligence-led investigations as its intelligence capabilities develop. 
 The Review identifies implementation and enforcement of the Russia sanctions regime as a central focus and notes that a number of active investigations are expected to reach decision points during 2026–27. It also highlights the continued expansion of OTSI’s remit, including the introduction of Sanctions End-Use Controls in May 2026 to address circumvention and the expansion of its licensing responsibilities in April to cover exports of sanctioned goods and related ancillary services. Alongside enforcement, OTSI continues to emphasise compliance support through guidance, stakeholder engagement and outreach, including forthcoming sanctions workshops aimed particularly at SMEs navigating trade sanctions requirements. 
 UK to Double Maximum OFSI Penalty for Financial Sanctions Breaches 
 The UK Chancellor has  announced  that the maximum monetary penalty available to OFSI for financial sanctions breaches will be increased from 50% to 100% of the estimated value of the funds or economic resources involved in a breach. Under section 146 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017, OFSI can currently impose a penalty of up to the greater of £1 million or 50% of the estimated value of the breach; the announced change would increase the percentage-based limb to 100%, significantly increasing potential exposure for high-value breaches. According to a UK Government press release, HM Treasury stated that the measure is intended to strengthen the deterrent effect of the UK sanctions regime and drive stronger enforcement. The announcement signals a further tightening of the UK’s financial sanctions enforcement framework and reinforces the importance for businesses of maintaining effective sanctions compliance, screening and escalation controls. 
 NCA Issues Industry-wide Alert on A7 Russia Sanctions Evasion Network 
 The National Crime Agency (“ NCA ”) and National Economic Crime Centre have  issued  an industry-wide “flash alert” on the A7 sanctions evasion network, developed with OFSI, the FCDO and financial sector partners through the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce. A7, established in 2024 by Ilan Shor and backed by sanctioned Russian state bank PSB and VEB.RF, is described as a cross-border payment mechanism used to circumvent sanctions, and claims to have settled more than $86 billion in its first year. The alert identifies methods used by the network to move value internationally, including overseas liquidity pools, globally registered shell companies or “sub-agents” operating local bank accounts, false invoices, VPNs used to disguise the location of operators, and promissory notes (“veksels”) that enable payments without correspondent bank transfers leaving Russia. OFSI has identified transactions between A7-linked shell companies and UK-incorporated beneficiaries, and the alert provides seven red-flag indicators for firms to assess against their existing AML and sanctions controls. The alert is particularly significant as it has been distributed across the regulated sector, underscoring expectations that firms incorporate emerging sanctions-evasion typologies into transaction monitoring and due diligence. 
 EU Developments 
 EU Considers Additional Russia Sanctions Listings Following Attempted Leipzig Drone Attack 
 On September 2, the German government  announced  that it had concluded Russia was responsible for the attempted drone attack at Leipzig/Halle Airport in August. German Interior Minister Alexander Dobrindt described the incident as a hybrid attack forming part of a broader pattern of Russian hybrid activities targeting European infrastructure and security. 
 The attempted attack was discussed at the  informal meeting  of Foreign Affairs Ministers held in Wicklow, where several Member States  reportedly  called for increased pressure on Russia through additional restrictive measures. Speaking at the  press conference  following the meeting, High Representative of the EU Kaja Kallas confirmed that work is ongoing on a package of up to 1,600 sanctions listings targeting Russia’s military-industrial complex. The package is being prepared with a view to adoption at the upcoming Foreign Affairs  Council  in October. Kallas further noted that at least one Member State had submitted additional listing proposals. Separately, German Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul  stated  that the EU would continue work in the coming weeks on further listings targeting Russian inpiduals. 
 In parallel, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen  stressed  that hybrid attacks would not go without a clear response and referred to forthcoming discussions among EU foreign ministers on additional sanctions against Russia. 
 CJEU Judgment on the Standard of Proof for Establishing “Control” under Russia Asset Freeze Sanctions 
 The Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) delivered its  judgment  in Case C‑147/25 (Inter Rao Lietuva), following a request for preliminary ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania regarding Article 2(1) of Council Regulation (EU) 269/2014. The case concerned the inclusion of a Lithuanian electricity supplier on a national list of persons whose funds and economic resources were to be frozen on account of its alleged links with a person subject to EU sanctions. 
 The Court held that national authorities may compile and publish such lists in order to implement the asset-freezing obligation under Article 2(1). However, the national authority must establish that the funds and economic resources of the person concerned belong to, or are owned, held or controlled by, a person, entity or body designated under Annex I to Council Regulation 269/2014. The mere existence of a “link” between the person subject to the national measure and an EU-designated person is not sufficient to justify inclusion on a national list of persons whose assets are to be frozen. 
 The Court further held that the reasons for the national measure must be supported by objective and sufficiently solid evidence. The national competent authority may establish control by direct evidence or by a sufficiently specific, precise and consistent body of indicia. In that regard, the Court found that the general nature of Russia’s political regime, including its autocratic and oligarchic character, does not constitute sufficiently solid evidence capable of establishing that the President of the Russian Federation exercises control over Inter Rao Lietuva. Such circumstances may be taken into account as part of the factual context, but cannot take the place of evidence demonstrating the existence of control for the purposes of Article 2(1). 
 Asia-Pacific Developments 
 Chinese Court Freezes $300M in Nexperia Assets Amid Ownership Battle With Wingtech 
 The Dongguan Intermediate ⁠People’s Court has  frozen  up to 2.14 billion yuan ($300 million) in Chinese assets belonging to Dutch chipmaker Nexperia following a lawsuit by its parent company, Wingtech Technology. Wingtech sued Nexperia and three executives in May and is seeking 8 billion yuan in damages after being stripped of control of Nexperia by Dutch authorities over national‑security concerns. The dispute, which previously saw China impose export controls on Nexperia’s Chinese operations that disrupted shipments, gives Wingtech leverage to regain voting control, though it does not change the company’s management or resolve the broader ownership fight. 
 Apex Logistics Cooperates With US Probe Into Illegal Chip Exports to China 
 Singapore-based logistics firm Apex Logistics is  cooperating  with a US government investigation into whether it illegally transported restricted AI chips to China in 2024. The company has since been cooperating with the probe and plans to “continue to work with them until the matter is resolved.” Apex’s parent company, Kuehne+Nagel, affirmed that the freight forwarder maintains its commitment to export regulations. 
 China Demands US Lift “Illegal” Iran-Related Sanctions on Its Companies 
 On September 3, 2026, China’s Ministry of Commerce has  urged  the US to immediately lift unilateral sanctions imposed on Chinese companies and citizens over alleged ties to Iran, strongly opposing the measures as illegal actions lacking UN Security Council authorization. The spokesperson warned that these sanctions disrupt global energy security, asserting that Beijing will firmly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of its businesses and inpiduals. 
 The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances. View source Related Articles Article D.C. Circuit Upholds FRA Buy America Waiver For Brightline West High-Speed Rail Project Global Government, Public Sector Bass, Berry & Sims PLC Article Beer Permitting Red Tape – Are Businesses Seeing More Or Less? United States Government, Public Sector Adams and Reese LLP Article Federal Circuit Resolves Court Split Over IDIQ Awardee Standing United States Government, Public Sector Crowell & Moring LLP Article Rohit Chopra’s California Move: What Has He Done So Far—and What Does It Tell Us About His Agenda? United States Government, Public Sector Ballard Spahr LLP Article SBA Extends Deadline For Comments On Historic Overhaul Of Size Standards United States Government, Public Sector Crowell & Moring LLP Read more about Government, Public Sector Money Laundering Corporate/Commercial Law Compliance International Law Export Controls & Trade & Investment Sanctions See more popular content from Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Weekly Sanctions Update: September 14, 2026 The Treasury Department intensifies economic pressure on Iran through Operation Economic Outcast, suspending aviation licenses and sanctioning dozens of entities while implementing a presumption of denial for Iran-related transactions. Meanwhile, new enforcement actions target Chinese cybercrime platforms, Ecuadorian terrorist organizations, and Israeli settlers, as Congress considers comprehensive Russia-Iran sanctions legislation.
 Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Massachusetts’ 2026 Ballot Questions: What Clients Need To Know Massachusetts voters will decide nine statewide ballot questions in November 2026 that could fundamentally reshape the state&#x27;s legal, regulatory, and fiscal landscape. These measures address government transparency, election reforms, housing development, marijuana regulation, firearms laws, and state revenue limits, with implications extending far beyond Election Day to implementation, regulation, and ongoing policy debates.
 United States Government, Public Sector Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C. Article DOJ Continues DEI False Claims Act Enforcement With $25 Million Accenture Settlement The Department of Justice announced a $25 million settlement with Accenture Federal Services over allegations that the company violated the False Claims Act by falsely certifying compliance with anti-discrimination requirements while allegedly using race or sex in hiring, promotion, and access to professional development programs. This marks the third major DEI-related FCA enforcement action in 2026, following similar settlements with IBM and Deloitte.
 United States Government, Public Sector Bass, Berry & Sims PLC Article BIOSECURE Act Update: Court Enjoins WuXi AppTec’s 1260H Designation, but Strategic and Compliance Clocks Keep Running The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia has preliminarily enjoined the Department of War from enforcing WuXi AppTec&#x27;s Section 1260H designation, finding the agency misread its evidence on state and military affiliation. However, this ruling does not close alternative pathways to biotechnology company of concern (BCC) designation under the BIOSECURE Act, and earlier supply-chain restrictions continue to drive near-term compliance decisions with a critical June 30, 2027 deadline for sub-tier supp United States Government, Public Sector Greenberg Traurig Article DOJ&#x27;s $2 Million Honeywell Settlement Under The Civil Cyber-Fraud Initiative: What Compliance Failures Mean For Defense Contractors The Department of Justice secured a $2 million settlement with Honeywell Aerospace for allegedly failing to comply with NIST SP 800-171 cybersecurity requirements under a Department of War contract. This case demonstrates how cybersecurity compliance failures can trigger False Claims Act liability even without an actual data breach or cyberattack, and highlights the growing role of whistleblowers in exposing contractors&#x27; gaps between contractual obligations and actual security practices.
 United States Government, Public Sector Bass, Berry & Sims PLC Article Navigating The Impact Of The Trump Administration&#x27;s Federal Funding Freeze This bulletin discusses and advises about the recent flurry of activity from the Trump Administration directing a freeze on the expenditure of certain federal funds. We summarize the current status of the now. United States Government, Public Sector Benesch, Friedlander, Coplan & Aronoff LLP Article A New Prescription For FDA Leadership: Dr. Heidi Overton Tapped As Commissioner President Trump has nominated Dr. Heidi Overton to lead the FDA, bringing a policy expert with experience in medical marijuana reform, vaccine policy, and drug access initiatives. Her prior positions on mifepristone regulation, childhood vaccination schedules, and pharmaceutical innovation offer insight into potential agency priorities. The nomination faces a contested Senate confirmation process as stakeholders assess how her health policy background may shape FDA&#x27;s regulatory approach.
 United States Government, Public Sector McDermott Will & Schulte Article New Bipartisan Senate Infrastructure Bill Emphasizes Reauthorization, Research, Resilience And Reliability On August 10, a group of 19 Republican Senators joined their Democratic colleagues in approving a bill that, if passed by the House of Representatives and signed... United States Government, Public Sector A&O Shearman Article National Historic Preservation Act Overhaul: What You Need To Know The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation has advanced a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would fundamentally restructure Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, marking the most significant regulatory overhaul in over 20 years. The proposed changes would shift the consultation process from a multi-step framework to an agency-prepared report system, narrow the scope of protected properties, and grant federal agencies greater unilateral authority in resolving adverse effects. United States Government, Public Sector Kelley Drye & Warren LLP Article Weekly Sanctions Update: September 21, 2026 The Lindsey O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026 has become law, imposing sweeping sanctions on Russian officials, financial institutions, and shadow fleet vessels while authorizing tariffs up to 100 percent on major purchasers of Russian oil and natural gas. How will these new measures impact global trade relationships, particularly with China and India as the largest buyers of Russian crude? Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Sanctions Update: September 8, 2026 The Trump administration&#x27;s Venezuela oil deal and expanded General Licenses have opened unprecedented opportunities for multinationals to invest in Venezuela&#x27;s energy, mining, and telecommunications sectors, while simultaneously launching "Operation Economic Outcast" to impose crushing economic pressure on Iran. United States International Law Steptoe LLP Article Weekly Sanctions Update: September 14, 2026 The Treasury Department intensifies economic pressure on Iran through Operation Economic Outcast, suspending aviation licenses and sanctioning dozens of entities while implementing a presumption of denial for Iran-related transactions. Meanwhile, new enforcement actions target Chinese cybercrime platforms, Ecuadorian terrorist organizations, and Israeli settlers, as Congress considers comprehensive Russia-Iran sanctions legislation.
 Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Israel’s 2026 Elections: The Political Landscape And Strategic Outlook Israel&#x27;s upcoming elections represent a critical juncture as voters weigh Prime Minister Netanyahu&#x27;s wartime leadership against mounting domestic crises including ultra-Orthodox draft exemptions... Israel Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Weekly Sanctions Update: September 21, 2026 The Lindsey O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026 has become law, imposing sweeping sanctions on Russian officials, financial institutions, and shadow fleet vessels while authorizing tariffs up to 100 percent on major purchasers of Russian oil and natural gas. How will these new measures impact global trade relationships, particularly with China and India as the largest buyers of Russian crude? Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Ukraine’s “Kinetic” Sanctions Against Russian Energy Infrastructure Add New Pressure To Global Energy Markets Ukraine has dramatically escalated its long-range strike campaign against Russian critical infrastructure, targeting refineries, export terminals, and shadow fleet vessels in what it calls a "kinetic sanctions" approach. Ukraine Energy and Natural Resources Steptoe LLP Article Colombia’s New President Fuels Market Optimism But Faces Barriers To Policy Agenda Colombia&#x27;s President-elect Abelardo de la Espriella prepares to take office with an ambitious agenda to reverse his predecessor&#x27;s leftist policies through business-friendly reforms, aggressive security measures, and energy sector expansion. His administration faces significant challenges including legislative opposition, fiscal constraints with a deficit exceeding 6% of GDP, and the complex task of combating sophisticated transnational criminal networks that generate billions in illicit revenue. Market opti Colombia Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Executive Order 14421: National Emergency Declaration Imposes New Restrictions On Foreign Bulk-Power System Equipment President Trump&#x27;s Executive Order 14421 declares a national emergency to secure the U.S. bulk-power system, imposing new restrictions on foreign-produced electric equipment that poses national security risks. The order prohibits certain imports and installations while directing the Department of Energy to identify and potentially replace existing vulnerable equipment already on the grid.
 United States Energy and Natural Resources Steptoe LLP Article Weekly Sanctions Update: August 31, 2026 The US Treasury Department has launched "Operation Economic Outcast," the most comprehensive economic pressure campaign ever directed at Iran, featuring expanded secondary sanctions, revoked banking access, and new sector-wide restrictions. Simultaneously, the administration has granted significant sanctions relief to Syria while tightening measures against terrorist support networks and updating Venezuela-related authorizations. These developments signal a major shift in US sanctions policy that will requi Global Government, Public Sector Steptoe LLP Article Federal Government To The Rescue? The California Invasion of Privacy Act has spawned an assembly line of lawsuits targeting common website features like chatbots and cookies, with plaintiffs claiming statutory damages of $5,000 per violation even without actual harm. California&#x27;s legislature has passed S.B. 690 to curb these claims, while new federal legislation seeks to provide broader relief by barring CIPA and similar state law claims related to digital commerce activities.
 United States Privacy Steptoe LLP Article "Banco Master” Bank Fraud Scandal Upends Brazilian Politics Ahead Of Elections Brazil is embroiled in its most significant fraud investigation since the 2014 Lava Jato probe, following the largest bank fraud in the country’s history. Brazil Criminal Law Steptoe LLP Rankings Jurisdictions Submissions Future Lawyers Firms & Lawyers Service Providers Barristers’ Sets Networks Interview with… In-House In-House Content GC Powerlist Knowledge Centre Data Products Legal Business News & Developments About us Legal 500 FAQs Marketing Careers Contact us Comparative Guides Events Legal 500 TV About us Legal 500 FAQs Marketing Careers Contact us Deutschland DE Paris FR © 2026 Legalease Ltd. All rights reserved Registered company in England & Wales No. 02427356 VAT GB 321 5727 22 Registered address: 188 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2AG Data Protection policies Cookies Policy Contact Us 
